README.md, before:

# Sam's Dotfiles ***NEBULIX***

My personal Linux dotfiles

I use Arch btw.

| ![Nebulix1](wallpapers/nebulix1.png) | ![Nebulix2](wallpapers/nebulix2.png) |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| ![Nebulix3](wallpapers/nebulix3.png) | ![Nebulix4](wallpapers/nebulix4.png) |

## Note on this repository

I use this repo to sync and backup my dotfiles.

The root of this repo is an equivalent to my $HOME directory

## List of tools used

| Tool | Name/site | repository | config |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| wayland compositer | [Hyprland](https://hypr.land/) | [github](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland) | [hypr](.config/hypr) |
| web browser | [Qutebrowser](https://www.qutebrowser.org/) | [github](https://github.com/qutebrowser/qutebrowser) | [qutebrowser](.config/qutebrowser) |
| terminal | [Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) | [github](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty) | [kitty](.config/kitty) |
| shell | [Oh my zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/) | [github](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh) | [zsh](.config/zsh)/[zshrc](.zshrc) |
| shell theming | [Starship](https://starship.rs/) | [github](https://github.com/starship/starship) | [starship](.config/starship.toml) |
| file explorer | [Superfile](https://superfile.netlify.app/) | [github](https://github.com/yorukot/superfile) | [spf](.config/superfile) |
| status bar | [Waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) | [github](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) | [waybar](.config/waybar) |
| menu | [Rofi](https://davatorium.github.io/rofi/) | [github](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/) | [rofi](.config/rofi) |
| notification daemon | [Mako](https://github.com/emersion/mako) | [github](https://github.com/emersion/mako) | [mako](.config/mako) |
| music player | [Ncmpcpp](https://github.com/ncmpcpp/ncmpcpp) | [github](https://github.com/ncmpcpp/ncmpcpp) | [ncmpcpp](.config/ncmpcpp)

### Web Browser ***QUTEBROWSER***

![Qutebrowser1](wallpapers/qutebrowser1.png)

Qutebrowser is a fancy light browser, extremely customizable and keyboard centered with use of VIM motions. For configuration, it use python scripts, which allows deep customization.

original repo : [Qutebrowser](https://github.com/qutebrowser/qutebrowser)

my configs files : [qutebrowser configs](.config/qutebrowser)

i separated my configuration into several files. The pricipal configuration file with privacy settings, searchengines and global configuration is [here](.config/qutebrowser/config.py) and for my style customization i created a [separated python file](.config/qutebrowser/themes/nebulix.py) that i source in my global customization file : 
```python
config.source('themes/nebulix.py')
```

#### Config tips 

to watch youtubes videos without ads, there is 2 methods actually. You can watch the youtube video in mpv by binding a shortcut like that :
```python
config.bind('<Ctrl+/>', 'hint links spawn mpv {hint-url}')
```

you need yt-dlp and mpv to do this 
```bash
sudo pacman -S yt-dlp mpv
```
It will open an MPV player with the YouTube video without the ads, first i hit my shortcut, then i select the video, here is the workflow :

| Step 1 | Step 2 |
|----|----|
| ![mpv2](wallpapers/mpv1.png) | ![mpv2](wallpapers/mpv2.png) |

The second method use a greasmonkey scripts, but i not cover this solution here, you at least know that it exists.

## Management

I'm using gite bare (git --git-dir=$HOME/.dotfiles/ --work-tree=$HOME) to manage these dotfiles

Commit message:

chore : readme update with umpv method for qtb

README.md, after:

# Sam's Dotfiles ***NEBULIX***

My personal Linux dotfiles

I use Arch btw.

| ![Nebulix1](wallpapers/nebulix1.png) | ![Nebulix2](wallpapers/nebulix2.png) |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| ![Nebulix3](wallpapers/nebulix3.png) | ![Nebulix4](wallpapers/nebulix4.png) |

## Note on this repository

I use this repo to sync and backup my dotfiles.

The root of this repo is an equivalent to my $HOME directory

## List of tools used

| Tool | Name/site | repository | config |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| wayland compositer | [Hyprland](https://hypr.land/) | [github](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland) | [hypr](.config/hypr) |
| web browser | [Qutebrowser](https://www.qutebrowser.org/) | [github](https://github.com/qutebrowser/qutebrowser) | [qutebrowser](.config/qutebrowser) |
| terminal | [Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) | [github](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty) | [kitty](.config/kitty) |
| shell | [Oh my zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/) | [github](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh) | [zsh](.config/zsh)/[zshrc](.zshrc) |
| shell theming | [Starship](https://starship.rs/) | [github](https://github.com/starship/starship) | [starship](.config/starship.toml) |
| file explorer | [Superfile](https://superfile.netlify.app/) | [github](https://github.com/yorukot/superfile) | [spf](.config/superfile) |
| status bar | [Waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) | [github](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) | [waybar](.config/waybar) |
| menu | [Rofi](https://davatorium.github.io/rofi/) | [github](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/) | [rofi](.config/rofi) |
| notification daemon | [Mako](https://github.com/emersion/mako) | [github](https://github.com/emersion/mako) | [mako](.config/mako) |
| music player | [Ncmpcpp](https://github.com/ncmpcpp/ncmpcpp) | [github](https://github.com/ncmpcpp/ncmpcpp) | [ncmpcpp](.config/ncmpcpp)

### Web Browser ***QUTEBROWSER***

![Qutebrowser1](wallpapers/qutebrowser1.png)

Qutebrowser is a fancy light browser, extremely customizable and keyboard centered with use of VIM motions. For configuration, it use python scripts, which allows deep customization.

original repo : [Qutebrowser](https://github.com/qutebrowser/qutebrowser)

my configs files : [qutebrowser configs](.config/qutebrowser)

i separated my configuration into several files. The pricipal configuration file with privacy settings, searchengines and global configuration is [here](.config/qutebrowser/config.py) and for my style customization i created a [separated python file](.config/qutebrowser/themes/nebulix.py) that i source in my global customization file : 
```python
config.source('themes/nebulix.py')
```

#### Config tips 

to watch youtubes videos without ads, i know 3 methods actually. You can simply watch the youtube video in mpv by binding a shortcut like that :
```python
config.bind('<Ctrl+/>', 'hint links spawn mpv {hint-url}')
```

you need yt-dlp and mpv to do this 
```bash
sudo pacman -S yt-dlp mpv
```
It will open an MPV player with the YouTube video without the ads, first i hit my shortcut, then i select the video, here is the workflow :

| Step 1 | Step 2 |
|----|----|
| ![mpv2](wallpapers/mpv1.png) | ![mpv2](wallpapers/mpv2.png) |

The second method is similar to the first but it uses a custom script which allows you to have a single instances of MPV and to add videos in queues, a bit like a playlist.

Script link : [umpv](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv/blob/master/TOOLS/umpv)

you need to add this script to your $PATH then you simply do this :

```bash
config.bind('<Ctrl+/>', 'hint links spawn umpv --enqueue {hint-url}')
```

The third method use a greasmonkey scripts, but i not cover this solution here, you at least know that it exists.

## Management

I'm using gite bare (git --git-dir=$HOME/.dotfiles/ --work-tree=$HOME) to manage these dotfiles
